[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome back, everyone.
I'm so glad that you
tuned back in tonight.
Now, in last night's
episode, we learned
about a lot of toxicities
that might be compromising
your body, making you sick;
a lot of trash that might
be building up in your body--
the vaccines, the GMOs, the
fluoride, the aspartame, and so
forth.
We learned about all that.
Now, let me ask you a question.
If your toilet was
overflowing in your house,
what would you do?
Well, you know what
to do, don't you?
You call the Roto Rooter
guy and he comes out
and he unclogs yours pipes.
But how many of
you actually know
how to get those toxins out of
your body that have accumulated
over the years?
How many of you know how to
properly detox your organs so
that you can get that
trash out of your system
and so that you can be healthy
like you were intended to be?
Many of you may not.
So that's why I'm glad
that you tuned in tonight.
This first interview
with Dr. Patrick Quillin
is going to be some really
amazing information from him.
I'm so excited to be
able to talk to him
because he uses the
analogy that detoxification
is like growing a garden.
How so, you might ask.
Well, he says that in order
to grow a garden properly,
you've got to detoxify the soil.
You've got to get
rid of the sticks,
you've got to get
rid of the stones,
you've got to make
that soil fertile so
that the plants can grow the
way that they were intended to.
You've got to do the same
thing with your body.
And that's what Dr. Patrick
Quillin shares here with us.
He says you've got to
detoxify your body so that you
can grow and be healthy the
way that you were intended to.
And we're going
to learn specifics
in this episode
about how to do that.
So pull up a chair, stay tuned.
You're going to really
enjoy this information.
First of all, with
Dr. Patrick Quillin.
I've heard you say that health
is like growing a garden.
Why do you compare those two?
>> Well, if you think about not
everybody in America has access
to a garden, but I hope you at
least have some appreciation
that I don't care if you live
in Central Park or near Central
Park in New York City and
I've been in New York dozens
of times And it's a
beautiful, vibrant city but go
to the nearest botanical gardens
and have a look at nature
and have an appreciation for it
because when you find a patch
of land and you say, I
want to grow a garden here,
the first thing you're going
to do is take out the weeds
and sticks and stones and
detoxify that patch of land.
Same thing with the human body.
If you find a body that's not
well, all kinds of symptoms,
we mentioned some of the
common killers in America.
And from those symptoms, the
first thing we would do is say,
we're going to take you just
like that piece of land.
Let's detoxify first.
Let's take out the heavy metals,
the volatile organic chemicals.
Studies have been done looking
at Americans where these
are legitimate
labs, FDA approved
labs that have looked
at urinary output
from volatile organic
chemicals, BPA.
Bisphenol A is one that's
commonly found and almost all
of us.
Flame retardants in
almost all of us.
You think, well, how
did it get there?
The fact is many of
us have been exposed
to frightening levels of
chemicals that in many cases
are hormone disruptors.
That is, they affect
the ability of the body
to make male or female
hormones, insulin.
The many hormones are
now this regulated.
So those chemicals,
the heavy metals,
the toxic burden in the gut.
Many of us are causing ourselves
what's called autotoxemia.
Auto is self, toxins in the gut.
And now you have yeast, candida
albicans, bacteria, yeast,
virus, other organisms that
can move into the bloodstream
and generate autoimmune
diseases, even cancer.
There is a whole
chapter in my book
"Beating Cancer with
Nutrition" that talks about
is cancer in some cases
actually an infection?
And that's a whole
fascinating subject.
Back to the business
of what does a garden
have to do with their body?
Detoxify it.
>> So what is detoxification?
It's heavy metals, it's
parasites, it's pesticides,
it's all these kinds of
toxins that are in your blood
and in your body.
What does that have to do
with the immune system?
Now, if you remember
in episode two,
we talked about the immune
system and the toxicities.
And in this next segment,
Dr. Murray Susser
elaborates on the
effect of heavy metals
in the immune system,
specifically talking about what
is chelation therapy.
>> The immune system plays
a pivotal role in cancer.
It may be the reason we get
cancer, when the immune system
fails for whatever reason.
And what is the
reason for failure?
As you mentioned, toxicity.
And what kind of
toxicity do you have?
Well, we all have too much
toxic metals in our body.
We all have too much
lead, cadmium, mercury.
And Walter Bloomer, have
you heard of Walter Bloomer
from Switzerland.
>> Yes.
>> He did a study where he gave
I forget the exact numbers,
50-some people got
chelation every month.
Chelation means metal binding.
It's a process of
putting a substance
like EDTA in the body.
It hooks onto the metal,
floats it out the kidney.
And that's a major
detoxifier for heavy metals.
Sweating is good, too.
>> Sauna.
>> In Finland, they did a
study with saunas and sweating,
and they found you could sweat
out more lead in an hour than
you could pee out in 24 hours.
>> Wow.
>> So sweating is good.
But it's still not
enough in most cases
to get rid of the lead toxicity.
And Walter Bloomer
said that there
was a 90% decrease in cancer in
patients who got the chelation.
>> Wow.
>> A 90% decrease.
He had 59 patients who got
treated, and one of them
got cancer over
an 18-year period.
Of 117 patients or so who
were the controls in a sense,
they didn't get the chelation,
that group had 17 cancers.
The study was not
a perfect study,
but it was a very good
study and it was approved
by the Swiss government.
>> OK.
Let's talk about the
heavy metal link and talk
about chelation therapy on
treating specifically cancer.
>> Well, you don't use chelation
to treat cancer or autism.
You treat chelation to
remove heavy metals.
And heavy metals cause
oxidative stress.
And it's the
oxidative stress that
is the commonality
in all the toxicities
that lead to disease.
I actually often
have said that I'm
nothing more than a
glorified trash man
because I just can take
out the trash better.
That's really what
it comes down to.
>> In allopathic medicine,
Western medicine,
what we accomplish in Western
medicine is stabilization
of the patient.
If their blood pressure
is high, we give them
something to bring it down.
If their blood sugar
is high, we give them
something to bring us down.
If they're dehydrated,
we hydrate them.
OK?
We're not fixing any problems.
>> You're just
alleviating the symptoms.
>> Alleviating the symptoms
is all we're doing.
OK?
But it stabilizes the patient.
That is the first
step of healing.
If you have a bleeding wound,
the first step in first aid
is to stop the bleeding.
You don't do anything
with it till you
stop the bleeding, that's the
first rule in all first aid.
If there's a bleeding
wound, put pressure on
and stop the
bleeding, number one.
>> Well, the next rule is
old dirty cuts never heal.
OK?
So if you have a dirty
wound, you have to clean it.
You have to detoxify it.
OK?
This is your next step.
Detoxification in the healing
process is the second step.
Once you're stable, you must
detoxify in order to progress.
Otherwise, you're going
to just spin your wheels
or spend a lot of money
just trying to feel better.
You'll take a supplement,
you'll take a medicine,
you'll feel better
for a little while.
It will work for a day,
two days, a month maybe.
And then it doesn't do
anything because you're still
managing toxins in your body.
So you've got to remove
the toxins from--
if you're going
to plant a garden
and there's garbage
all over the ground,
you don't just till the
garbage into the ground.
You go and clean it up,
then you plant your seeds
and you till your garden.
Right?
So a similar thing.
We have to get rid of the trash.
We've got to get
rid of the trash.
You've got to get all--
because all those
toxins in your body
are blocking the
healing process.
That might be amalgams
in your teeth,
it might be an infection, it
might be a yeast overgrowth,
it might be fluoride
or environmental toxins
and pesticides,
herbicides, heavy metals,
all these different things.
They have to be
removed out of the way.
Every one of those things is
a roadblock to your healing.
>> Right.
And you said earlier
in the interview
that if you are
nutritionally deficient,
you're a toxin sponge.
>> Right.
>> I heard you on our
radio show recently,
I think it was
Robert Scott Belcher,
but you were mentioning that the
importance with detoxification
is that, and I wrote
down the quote,
you have to make sure that the
exits are open and the filters
filter quickly.
So talk about those comments.
>> OK.
My favorite analogy
of that is if you
had a stadium with 10,000
people in it and there's a fire.
You've got to empty the
stadium, but you only
have two exits open.
You're going to make a mess.
There's going to be a mess.
That's the bottom line.
This is not going
to turn out well.
But you open 10 different
exits, it's five times better;
you open 20
different exits, it's
going to be 10 times better.
OK?
In the body, we have
four major exits.
We have the bowels, we have
the respiratory system,
we have the urinary tract,
and we have the skin.
If those four are open, things
can exit through those routes,
detoxification isn't so bad.
It's not so painful.
If you get a cut that's
scabbed over but it's dirty
and so it's festering
and infected,
you're going to have to pull
that scab off to get in there
and wash the infection out.
>> And it ain't
going to be pleasant.
>> It's not going
to be pleasant.
OK?
If it didn't have
the scab on there,
the exit would be a lot easier.
Right?
OK.
So there's cleansing that has to
happen to open up the pathways.
Then once you've opened up the
exits, working on the filters--
the liver, the kidneys,
the lymphatic system--
getting those things
moving and metabolizing
as fast as possible.
That way, they filter the toxins
out of the body and everything
you do detox is much easier.
That's where colon cleansing,
saunas, colonic irrigations,
those types of things that just
flush the body, open the exits.
Those are initially some of
the best things to start with.
Because you can start
working on the filters--
the kidneys, the liver,
the lymphatic system.
If they don't have anywhere
to dump the garbage,
it's going to recirculate.
OK?
And that just creates
all kinds of information
that increases your
rate of oxidation.
You're just re-exposing
yourself to toxins.
>> So according to Dr.
Buttar we've got to take out
the trash.
Or in the words of
Dr. Newsome, we've
got to remove the roadblocks.
But what about foods?
Can foods help us to
detoxify our bodies?
Let's listen to Dr. Leigh
Erin Connealy and Mike
Adams, the Health Ranger,
as they talk about the fact
that foods can actually
bind to heavy metals
and help us to
detoxify our bodies.
>> The process of their job,
they're dealing with mercury.
So mercury is everywhere.
Arsenic, I mean,
"Discover Magazine"
had the front cover,
metals in your food.
I mean, the EPA says
there's no safe level
of any toxic heavy
metal in your body.
OK?
So when they put norms there--
OK, first of all, how do I
know what's normal for you?
OK?
What may be normal for you may
be terribly destructive to me.
>> Because we're individual.
>> We're individuals.
And so I might not
be able to handle
one a little anything of mercury
and you might be able to, oh, I
can handle this.
I can manage it.
But the EPA, the Environmental
Protection Agency,
says there is no safe
level of these metals--
arsenic, mercury,
aluminum-- in your body.
And so we have to eat foods
that help us detoxify.
>> I've done extensive research
on what's called the metals
capturing capacity of
different types of foods.
I call it the MCC.
Where I test using a synthetic
gastric acid digestion
simulator that I
built in the lab.
I test foods versus
contaminants.
And I find out how
much of the contaminant
gets bound to the food
and thereby carried out
of your digestive tract
as insoluble fiber,
rather than being absorbed
through your walls
and going into your blood.
This is a key
concept to understand
to answer your question.
Processed foods, have very
low capturing capacity
because the thigh
bones are typically
processed out of them.
They're also structurally
compromised through processing.
They're denatured,
in other words.
>> Right.
Which makes them into un-food.
>> Un-food.
So if you eat let's
say a processed food
meal or a beverage that is
contaminated with let's say
10 parts per million
of mercury, you
are likely to absorb the
vast majority of that mercury
through your intestinal walls
that goes into your blood.
Or it could be
radioactive cesium 137.
Mercury, cesium, lead,
cadmium, you name it.
>> Whatever it might be.
>> Right.
But if you are eating a diet
of unprocessed fresh foods,
this is a whole
plant-based diet--
doesn't have to be 100% plants.
What we have found is that
natural plants, fresh produce
such as strawberries, have very
high natural metals capturing
capacity.
They're able to
bind with the metals
mostly through physical
processes of absorption
and adsorption as well.
Some foods have
selective ionic affinity
to specific metals
such as lead--
>> OK.
Which means they--
>> That they have a chemical
reaction that binds up
the metal.
It's chemistry taking place
in the acidic environment
of your stomach, technically,
with your own gastric acid.
So strawberries, for example--
this is something that
I've researched and I'm still
working on the scientific paper
to put out there--
but strawberries will
bind with over 90%
of your dietary
mercury, strawberries.
And the reason this is the
case is because strawberries
are the only common
fruit that has seeds
on the outside of the fruit.
The seeds being on
the outside, how
are they grown, how are they
produced by the strawberry?
Well, there are
strands, fibers, that
send nutrients to the seeds from
the center of the strawberry.
The center is where
it gets its nutrition.
It distributes it through
the fibers to the seeds.
These fibers, which are
transparent practically
under a microscope, happen to
be very, very tough fibers.
They will not be digested by
nitric acid in the laboratory.
I can take strawberries,
I can mix nitric acid--
we're talking like 70% nitric
acid, very strong oxidizer
that would burn the skin
right off your hand--
it will not digest the thigh
bones and the strawberry.
The thigh bones survive
human digestion,
which is far weaker than
nitric acid digestion.
I mean, orders of
magnitude weaker.
The strawberries then will
bind to the dietary mercury
with these fibers and that
gets pushed out of your system
through bowel movements.
The mercury is gone, it's out.
It never gets pulled
into your bloodstream
through your intestinal walls.
So many different types
of fruits and vegetables
have very interesting
affinities to heavy metals,
and this is what our research
has really uncovered.
The only thing that we found
better than strawberries,
by the way, is chlorella, which
is about 98% to 99% efficacy.
But chlorella doesn't work for
other things such as uranium.
Chlorella doesn't
absorb much uranium.
Spirulina does, but
not strawberries.
So one of the things
that I've done in the lab
is whether it's radioactive
elements, such as cesium
137 or customary heavy
metals like mercury,
arsenic, things
that cause cancer.
Arsenic is linked
to cancer, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, and by the way, do
you know what tends to absorb
arsenic?
Fruit seeds.
>> Fruit seeds.
>> OK.
>> Which is why some fruit
seeds contain arsenic naturally.
There's arsenic in apple juice.
Remember that scare?
>> Yeah, I remember that.
>> Because apple plants, apple
trees tend to take up arsenic
in the soil, which
came from the lead,
arsenic pesticides
that were talked about.
They tend to
concentrate in the seed
because the seeds have a
natural affinity to arsenic.
But if you can get apple seeds,
grape seeds, raspberry seeds,
blueberry seeds--
believe it or not, we've
tested all these things--
if you can get your hands on
these seeds, which by the way
are removed from
almost all of the food
that are sold in
the grocery store.
If you buy grape jam, you
don't want seeds in it.
If you buy blueberry jelly,
you don't want blueberry seeds
in it.
>> And that's where
all the good stuff is.
>> It's the seeds that bind
with the dietary arsenic
and transport it
out of your body.
Yeah.
I haven't released
that information yet.
You're the first person
to have this conversation.
>> Now, Mike Adams,
the Health Ranger,
just shared with
us about the MCC,
the metals capturing
capacity, of certain foods.
Now, what about coffee?
I know certain people would
swear that coffee is a food,
and maybe it technically is.
But are there any
properties of coffee
that could help us to
detoxify our bodies?
Let's listen to two
prominent medical doctors
chime in on this issue.
Concerning coffee enemas,
is that something you think
would be appropriate
for people that may not
have been diagnosed with
cancer but just in light
of the toxic
overload that we have
today that's something that
could stimulate the liver
to help create
all of the toxins?
Is that something that
is good for people
that don't have cancer?
>> I believe so.
Now, I have to put
in a disclaimer
when I say something
like that since we
live in a litigious world.
So I'll say that I'm not
telling any of your audience,
I'm not advising them to do it.
They need to get instruction
on how to do it properly.
But having said that, yes,
I do think that they're
beneficial for anybody.
And I think most people find
they feel better with them.
So they tend to sell themselves.
None of our patients coming
in for the first time
ever believe this,
but I tell them,
it's going to be your
favorite part of the program.
And they come back and say,
you're absolutely right.
I never miss the coffee
enemas because they
made me feel so much better.
>> What is it about the coffee
in the enemas that helps
to detoxify the body?
>> Interestingly enough,
when you drink coffee,
it tends to suppress the liver.
When you take coffee
as an enema rectally,
the caffeine stimulates
a bunch of nerves
in the lower colon called the
sacral parasympathetic nerves.
When they are turned
on by caffeine,
they feed back to the
liver through a reflex arc
and within seconds
cause the liver
to release all its toxins.
Nothing helps the liver clean
out faster, more efficiently,
more effectively
than coffee enemas.
And for cancer patients,
when you're breaking down
a tumor quickly with
the enzyme, you've
got all this tumor
debris that can
be deadly and life-threatening.
It gets the liver to work better
so they process this tumor
waste very effectively
and then you just
poop them out with the enemas.
So interestingly enough,
when you drink coffee
it's really toxic
to a cancer patient.
When you take it rectally, it
opens up the liver so the liver
dumps in the small
intestine and you
get rid of all this dead
tumor waste very effectively.
I have patients that when
they're breaking down tumor,
you get an autoimmune
reaction to the tumor
and you get fevers of
103 and 104 do an enema
and literally within 20 minutes,
the fever goes down to normal.
We see this routinely.
And indeed,
conventional oncologists
know today in 2014
that nothing is
more toxic to the human
body than dead cancer.
In fact, chemotherapy, though
it doesn't work for most cancers
does work for some like
Hodgkin's and certainly
leukemias.
And in a Hodgkin's patient, if
you break a tumor down too fast
with chemo, you'll kill the
patient from the dead tumor.
They call it tumor
lysis syndrome.
It's recognized
in the textbooks.
All of my conventional
textbooks talk about it.
Well, Kelly recognized
that back in 1963
when he was trying to
get over his own cancer.
And he started going into the
literature as he always did.
He was a great scholar.
He would go into the
literature trying
to find some technique
that would help his liver
and kidneys work better.
The liver and the kidney are
the body's main detoxification
organs.
That's where
environmental chemicals,
our own metabolic
waste, the dead cancer
are processed and neutralized
and compared for secretion.
He opens up the "Merck
Manual" and lo and behold,
there are coffee enemas.
The interesting thing or the
sad thing is, the ironic thing,
Kelly was brutalized
in the media
for his use of coffee enemas.
We get attacked
about it today, too.
But they come right out of
the conventional medical
literature.
He didn't learn about it from
alien space beings projected
into his brain through some
mystic psychic experience.
He didn't learn about through
some alternative throwaway
journals on the health history.
He learned about it from the
conventional medical textbooks.
The "Merck Manual"
is a compendium
of conventional therapies.
And they were in
the "Merck Manual,"
coffee enemas were
in the "Merck Manual"
right up until the 1970s.
>> So Dr. Isaacs and Dr.
Gonzales both just shared with
us about the way that coffee
enemas help us to detoxify
the liver.
While we're talking
about coffee enemas,
let's listen to what
Suzanne Somers had
to say about the time period
when she was interviewing
several of Dr.
Gonzales' patients
as she was preparing to
write her bestselling book,
"Knockout."
>> When I wrote "Knockout," I
interviewed 17 of his patients.
I said, I'd just like
to talk to stage fours.
And I remember there were
these two older women.
When I interviewed them,
I thought they were older,
but they're sort of close
to what my age is now.
Funny how time flies.
And they're both in their 70s
and one had stage four breast,
one had stage four ovarian
only been treated by Nick.
One had stage four ovarian for
17 years, the other stage four
breast at that
time for 12 years.
I haven't asked Nick
recently, but as of last year,
they're both still
alive and thriving.
And I played devil's advocate.
I said, really, you do
coffee enemas every day?
And they started joking and
the older one said, yeah.
I particularly
like French roast.
She said, gets me
kind of all juiced up.
I said, OK.
Whatever.
But it makes sense that if you
keep cleaning out the liver,
and a coffee enema goes back to
early Egyptian Cleopatra era,
cleaning out the liver
of toxins in a time
in the world where our livers
are groaning from intoxication.
You wonder how anybody
can be alive without doing
regular liver cleanse.
>> Well, that's some great
information from Suzanne
Somers, one of America's
most beloved personalities.
What about water?
What effect does
water have on our body
and does it help us to detoxify?
>> The pH of your
blood is what matters.
The pH of urine is a grade
from an assessment perspective
trying to understand what's
going on from a toxin burden
from some other things.
But the pH of the blood is where
we actually see the blood's
ability to carry out toxins.
If we can keep the blood
pH at a 7.45, which
is the threshold of
blood, then we're
going to have far more
dissolved oxygen in that blood.
When we have more oxygen,
we carry out more toxins.
For instance, patients
that are suffering
from significant pathology
like cancer, if we
can keep their
blood pH at a 7.45
and have more
oxygen in the blood,
their energy levels
are going to increase,
their metabolic rate
is going to increase,
they're going to
carry out more toxins.
>> You've got to drink
the right kind of water.
And again, steeped in science.
There's no hocus pocus here.
People say, well, yeah, Bob.
I know I need water,
I need to hydrate.
I hear that all the time.
That's good.
OK.
But where's the pill?
They just don't get it.
Because again, as
I said previously,
it's too simple for them.
Water is too simple, the
right diet is too simple.
I need something
with drugs in it,
I need a pill, something
that can actually
knock this cancer out.
And I'm saying, no, no, no.
You're missing this.
Each 12-ounce
glass of this water
hydrates the body better
than anything else
you can put in it.
It's reshaped water.
It's reshaped hexagonal like
your cells so it goes right in.
It's micro structured water.
Each glass has more
antioxidant capacity
than all the organic
fruits and vegetables
you could possibly
eat in one day.
Plus, it's the fastest way
to bring an acidic body back
to alkalinity that
we know of today.
So it is steeped in science.
We have seen reversals of
end stage cancer patients
with pancreatic cancer,
lung cancer, liver cancer,
all the mostly
fatal ones sent home
to die with less than 90 days.
These people are well today.
What did they do?
They changed their water.
That's all they did.
Of course, I recommend
you do more than that.
You've got to
change food, you've
got to change your water,
you've got to detoxify the body.
We have a new
detoxification procedure
which is whole body detox.
It's called PIOH.
That's the acronym, P-I-O-H.
I write about it in the new
edition of my book.
It's that important.
Precision intestinal
oxidative hydrotoning.
It starts looking like
colonic hydrotherapy,
but way different.
There's 100 ways to do
colonic hydrotherapy.
One is shutting the person up
with a garden hose in a room,
and that one's not very pretty.
But this starts looking
like colonic hydrotherapy,
but it's done with specialized
equipment and perfected water.
They take water and put it
through a six-stage filtration
process to perfect the water,
and it's really the secret.
And then they utilize
the water with ozone.
So you've got H2O,
the water; you've
got ozone, O3 combining
within the colon
to start with to create what
we call polyatomic oxygen.
So it could morph into O17 or
O22 or something like that.
But the thrust of this
is that it permeates
not only the large
intestine and the colon,
but also the oxygen
permeates all the cells
and goes into the body.
Oxygen is good for a cancer
patient and for all of us.
>> So water is of
vital importance
in the detoxification puzzle.
But what about emotions?
Can negative emotions, feelings
of despair, negative thoughts
be detrimental to your health?
What about the
feeling of despair,
does that have any kind of--
>> The Bible that says that
the power of life and death is
in the tongue.
So if you pronounce
somebody dead,
they see the doctors
as an authority.
And so they buy it, I'm
dead, no matter what.
And the truth is that not
only doctors are not gods--
we don't know--
but nobody in this
room knows if we're
going to be alive tomorrow.
And by the same
token, you can never
say that a cancer
patient is going to die.
We've had patients
that were told
that they were going
to die in three months
and 20 years later--
you met one, [INAUDIBLE]
27 years later,
she's still alive.
She's not cured, but she's
alive, enjoying life.
And so the first thing
that I impress on a patient
is that victory over cancer is
a decision, not a happening.
You don't have to be victorious
for the tumor to go away.
There are patients that
have surgery and chemo
and then the tumor goes
away and they can't sleep.
Why?
Because they don't know
when it's coming back.
So they're tumor-free
but not free of cancer.
And there are other
patients that say,
cancer is the best thing
that ever happened to me.
Before I had cancer, I
took everything for granted
and now I see life is beautiful.
And it's because of this
cancer that I can see that
and cancer is the best thing
that ever happened to me.
So that person is
riddled with cancer
and is victorious over cancer.
>> I know many people
that fit that description.
>> And so it's very important
if you have victory over cancer
in your mind,
everything follows.
If you decide that
you're going to die,
it's very difficult
to bring you back.
Victor Frankl
could determine who
was going to die within 24
hours in the concentration camp,
and it was when they
smoked their cigarettes.
He said, well, cigarettes
cannot cause cancer in 24 hours.
No.
Cigarettes were their hope
and they traded everything
with cigarettes.
So when they had
no more hope, they
started smoking their cigarettes
like you burning your money.
>> Ah.
>> And they would
die within 24 hours.
So the power of
hope is incredible.
That's why we're
the oasis of hope.
And we've been
criticized enormously
for selling false hope.
And my question is, well,
if false hope is telling,
you are going to live, what
is true hope, you're dead?
>> Right.
>> No, there is no
false true hope.
There's hope or no hope.
>> Well, it reminds
me, Dr. Contreras,
of a quote from
Charlotte Gerson,
who was accused of spreading
false hope, much like yourself.
And she accused them of
spreading false despair.
>> Yeah.
Well, really true despair.
>> True despair.
>> You're dead.
You have to start
chemotherapy now
and you'll live six more
months with no hair, vomiting.
>> A negative thought can kill
you faster than a bad germ.
So one of the main things
of detoxifying is here.
>> The mind.
The emotions, the
conflicts, the traumas
going back to what
we said earlier.
>> Sure.
>> So detoxing those
psychological, emotional,
biological conflicts
and trauma is key.
>> What a telling quote, "a
negative thought can kill you
faster than a bad germ."
We know that when
you're stressed
that you secrete adrenaline
cortisol, which then
compromises the immune system.
So that makes sense to me.
What about epigenetics?
What exactly does epigenetics
mean and what about the placebo
effect?
You've heard the stories of
people that took a sugar pill
and got better.
Listen up.
>> You're always hearing
about genes and genomes now.
And we know about
genetics and epigenetics.
Sadly, Angelina Jolie
was dealt a bad hand
by doctors who simply don't
know but think they know.
Why would a woman with
two perfectly good breasts
who carries a BRCA1
defective gene
have them
prophylactically removed
because someone said her
chances of cancer went up?
The odds are if you
live right, and this
is called the epigenetics,
the cancer will never,
ever manifest
itself in your body.
If the genetics is the
computer, the epigenetics
is the software that
drives it and runs it.
We now have epigenetic products.
We recommend now
a supplement that
is the only one that is proven
to be epigenetic in nature.
In other words, it can
turn off the bad genes
and turn on the good genes.
We're pretty excited
about that, although we
know that there's a
lot of foods out there
that do the same
thing right now.
So we've already
got that answer.
It's already there.
We just need to pay
more attention to it
and actually utilize
these types of things.
We'll have much less
cancer or any disease.
So when you mention
epigenetics, you're
talking about lifestyle
choices, things
that folks can do
that would stop
their potential
genetic predisposition
from manifesting.
>> Yes.
What you can do, what
you can stop doing,
things that you can take,
foods that you can eat,
supplements that you can take
that change what people think
is that predestination, that
a gene or a defective gene
gives you.
>> Well, we all have
strengths and weaknesses.
And in homeopathy,
we talk about miasms,
inherited predispositions.
So it's not like we ignore
genetics completely.
But the reality is what makes
them manifest is environment.
This gets into something
called epigenetics.
One of my favorite
interviews a few times
I've met him and befriended him,
the cellular biologist Bruce
Lipton about opened my eyes to
this whole field of epigenetics
that the environment impacts
on genetic expression
and that your very belief
about life and everything
impacts on genetic expression.
So you can literally change
your genes by what you believe.
And of course, if you
talk to any doctors that
work with cancer
holistically, they'll
recognize that they
can do everything
to remove toxins and replenish
the soil of the body,
give the minerals and things,
but if the patient doesn't
believe he or she
will get well, there's
not a lot you can do
ultimately in that regard.
>> I will tell you this, I
think that in modern medicine,
this demonization of placebo
effect is the most ridiculous
thing.
We should be harnessing it.
>> It works.
>> Exactly.
I can't tell you how many times
I've used placebo on purpose.
When I was in general surgery,
part of our surgical rotation
is you have to do
trauma surgery,
you have to do general surgery
different types of surgery.
And when we did trauma
at Brooke Army Medical
Center, a large trauma
center, as well as at Baylor
in Houston--
>> BAMC-- Brooke
Army and Baylor.
>> Yeah.
So I spent a lot of time
in both those hospitals.
But we'd have a
lot of drug addicts
that would come through,
gunshot wounds, knifings,
drug deal gone bad whatever.
And while they're in
recovery after the surgery
and they may be in the
hospital for a month,
two months, three
months these people
are going through
withdrawals, big time
withdrawals from alcohol,
from drugs, whatever.
And as an intern,
as a resident, you
make rounds with the senior
residents and everything.
And as an intern,
you make rounds
before everybody else
at 5:30 in the morning.
And as a first-year
resident, you
usually go over with the
intern to see what is going on.
And I got the reputation
among the people
that were in the hospital that
I would take care of their issue
if they had an issue.
Well, the reason I
got this reputation,
when you've got a guy
that's been hooked on drugs
for more than half his
life, he's in the hospital,
he's going through withdrawal--
I'm having chest pain, doc.
You've got to do
something for me.
And I would say, OK, listen.
I can get kicked out of my
residency program if I do this.
All right?
And you've talked to the
nurse and the nurse already
knows what's going on.
The nurse is arguing.
She's like, no, Dr.
Buttar, we can't do this.
And I go, we have to.
He really needs this.
It's only one time.
Right?
You won't ask for-- yeah, doc.
Just one time.
And you'd give him this hit
and say it's really, really
some strong stuff.
OK?
This is like way--
well, what is it?
It's like Sufenta.
What, you're going
to give me Sufenta?
I mean, it's so good.
And then you give them
this thing and they go, ah.
I feel it.
I'm feeling better.
You know and you've
just given them saline.
But the power of belief, they
believed there was something
because I'm making a whole
orchestrated like soap opera
we had going on.
There were like five or six
people all involved with this.
The person felt like
we gave them something.
They were willing to not
perform for you because you
did something for them.
They thought that
you just gave them
something that really took
care of their addiction
and it was all in the mind.
It was just saline.
And more than half
the time, it worked.
Now, you're telling me that
we should just write that off?
Why?
Because you know what, you
could give a person a drug
and you wouldn't get
that kind of effect.
We should harness that power.
So if we can actually
elicit that type of response
in an individual
where we can get
a benefit in that individual
from just the power of belief
without changing
the physiology, it's
our ethical fiduciary
responsibility as healers,
as doctors, to harness that
power and get that result.
Because if we can do
so with the least harm,
that's the first part of being
a doctor, right, do no harm.
And if you give
somebody narcotics,
you are affecting them
in a negative way.
You're affecting
the liver, there
is harm that's being done.
So if we can get the same
result without giving them
a narcotic, why shouldn't we?
And why is that poo-pooed?
Why is that ridiculed that you
got this result from a placebo?
You should get a
Nobel Prize if you
can elicit a response
from placebo, as
far as I'm concerned at least.
>> Wow.
Yeah.
That makes total sense.
I agree.
Because you've done
no harm and you've
potentially healed the patient.
>> Just from the
power of belief.
>> Wow.
The power of belief.
>> And the power
to heal is yours.
That's how we do our radio
show every Monday, right?
The power to heal is yours.
And this is a perfect example
of the power of healing
is that individuals.
It's their right.
>> I have to agree
with Dr. Buttar,
the power to heal is yours.
Now, while I was out in
California earlier this year,
I was able to sit down and
talk to Burton Goldberg
about the lymphatic system.
>> One of the systems that
is the garbage removal system
of our body is the lymph system.
And very few cancer
physicians pay attention
to the lymph system.
It is the basis of lymphocytes.
These are the good guys.
And it also is the garbage
removal system of the body.
And I use a device myself, I
have one that I use on myself,
called the light beam generator.
But there's a few of them that
fractionalize the molecules.
>> So what we have our patients
do as we have them do things
like rebounding.
Rebounding is one of the
best exercises against cancer
and every other disease because
it moves your lymph system
better than anything else.
And moving your lymph is
the most important thing
against cancer and disease.
>> That's fascinating,
Dr. Wolfe.
Tell me why, tell us why.
Why is rebounding so important?
>> Well, remember what I said,
I always want you to question
people.
I want all my patients--
I say, you question me and
you question everyone else.
If they're not speaking logic,
if one and one don't make two
or if you go there and
you go, I'm confused,
or if you feel
fear from something
I said, chances are I am lying
or I don't know I'm lying.
OK.
So rebounding, think about it.
When your children were
young and they couldn't walk
and they were like little
babies and they were crying,
what did you do for them, Ty?
Do you remember?
You bounced them on your
knee or you rocked them
on your shoulder.
Why did you do that?
Because you aren't
totally brainwashed.
You still have
some instinct left.
So you rocked the baby.
Right?
And you rocked the baby
because the only way
that the lymph system can
move is by up and down motion.
And your lymph
system, OK, you've
got eight pints of blood.
But you've got 12
quarts of lymph.
Don't you forget that.
And when you find that you're
getting all puffy and swollen,
that's your lymph system
and you're in big trouble.
So you know when people
swell up like a puff ball?
Well, that's because
they're retaining water
because they're so bloody toxic
and they've been backing up
waste for years.
So when you start cleansing out
the colon and then you rebound,
you're moving that stuff.
If you move the
circulation, it's
like if the water doesn't
move, you better not
drink it because it's
going to kill you
because it has to circulate.
So rebounding also exercises
every cell individually,
toning it.
>> Excellent information
from Dr. Wolfe.
Rebounding stimulates the
lymphatic system better
than any other exercise.
But I know you're
asking a question, what
is the lymphatic system?
Let's listen to Dr. Irvin Sahni
explain the lymphatic system
and we'll learn
exactly why it's so
important in our overall health.
Talk about the lymphatic system.
What is the lymphatic system?
>> Yeah.
So the lymphatic
system is something
that I think people aren't
as aware of as their lungs
and their heart.
The lymphatic system is
basically, to some degree,
an overflow valve for the body.
So what happens is we all
know our heart pumps blood out
to our distal extremities.
They go from arteries
and the arteries
go to capillaries and
then the capillaries.
So most of the blood that
pumps through your body,
that's constantly
pumping your body,
goes from arteries to
capillaries and passes
back into your
heart through veins
and goes through the
circuit through your heart
and your lungs.
There is some bleed-off--
OK, that's what we call
interstitial pressure
in tissues--
and there's some bleed-off
where fluid, and a lot of it
has to do with osmotic forces.
People remember
osmosis and basically
tissue pressure gradients.
And some of this
fluid will bleed off
into the interstitial
pressure because the pressure
inside the vessels is
greater than the pressure
outside the vessels and
there's some bleed-off,
some loss of fluid.
Well, that fluid doesn't
jump back into your veins.
It has to go somewhere.
That's why some
people get edema.
They'll get swelling
in their ankles
and swelling in different
parts of their bodies.
Well, where does that fluid go?
Does it just disappear?
It goes into your lymph system.
So your lymph system
is a system of vessels.
There's different
components there,
but your lymph
system is a system
that's kind of like vessels.
That don't have muscular
walls like big arteries.
But the lymph system
grabs this fluid
and then returns it
back into the system,
ultimately back into
the venous system
through a large
duct in your chest
called your thoracic duct.
But this extra fluid
that sort of bleeds out
through these
capillaries will then
feed back into that system.
It also passes through
other parts of your body,
including your spleen--
OK, that's also sort
of considered part
of your lymphatic system--
your thymus, your tonsils,
and your adenoids,
what a lot of people
have removed as a child.
There's lymph tissue
or there's lymphocytes
and those lymphocytes recognize
pathogens, viruses, bacteria,
or things that are
considered non-self.
And your body builds immunity
through those lymphocytes,
which is what's effective
when someone has
an immune deficiency disorder.
Whether you believe in
the HIV virus or not,
there are certainly immune
deficiency orders disorders.
And T4 cells and helper cells,
different classes of cells
are affected when the
immune system falters.
And those are the
little soldiers
that are facing these
pathogens, these bacteria,
these androgens, toxins
even as they pass
through the lymphatic system.
It's sort of kind of like
your oil filter, I guess.
They're filtering out
some of the nasty stuff.
So the reason jumping
on a trampoline
is useful is because
your lymphatic system,
unlike other parts
like your muscles
and your heart or
your skeletal muscle,
it doesn't have a
muscle wrapped around.
Like arteries have muscle in
them called a tunica media.
It's what helps
vascular changes.
You can actually
change the pressure
by those muscles clamping
down or letting go.
Well, the lymphatic system
doesn't have that ability
so it depends on the skeletal
muscles for that return.
So by compressing your thighs
by just simply walking,
you're actually pushing
lymph through your body.
It's sort of passively pushed
through by the other muscles
in your body.
And so by hopping
on a trampoline,
you're basically forcing
those muscles to contract
and you're helping
that drainage.
Instead of having it
collect in your ankles,
like you see people
with swollen ankles,
you're helping some
of that return.
And that's why when people
start having problems
with blood pressure
and their heart,
they sometimes will
get swollen ankles
because that big
pressure differential is
pushing all that fluid out
into their interstitial tissues
and their lymph system can't
keep up, especially if they're
sedentary.
If they're sitting
around they're sick,
they have cardio--
congestive heart
failure and their heart
has poor return so
they get dizzy quickly,
they're not going to be able
to get up and walk around
to help push that lymph back
into their venous system.
And so a healthy person can
just constantly contract
their muscles and
keep that going.
That constant activity
is what also helps you
from getting deep
vein thrombosis.
I can't remember
who he was, there
was a reporter who was embedded
in either Afghanistan or Iraq.
He was kind of curled up in
a ball and got dehydrated.
He got DVTs because
of inactivity
because he wasn't walking
around and that clot was thrown
to his heart and he died.
He was 44 years old--
I know he was in his early
40s when it happened.
Very unusual, but again,
inactivity is bad for you.
And the converse
is true, I think,
activity is good for you.
And that's why that
specific form of exercise
helps assist the lymphatic
system in returning that fluid
back to the venous system.
>> What a fantastic explanation
of the lymphatic system from
Dr. Sahni.
While I was asking
him questions,
I wanted to get his
input on the effect
that heat has on cancer
cells, specifically far
infrared saunas.
And I also got the input
of Dr. Tony Jimenez, who
leads the Hope for Cancer
Clinic in Tijuana, Mexico,
on the same issue.
Dr. Sahni, talk about
far infrared saunas.
I know that you're a big
proponent of far infrareds.
Talk about the effect that
this can have on cancer.
>> So far infrared saunas, the
way they work is relatively
simple.
They exploit or take
advantage of a portion
of the electromagnetic spectrum
that basically increases
the temperature of the
body, creates hypothermia,
without exposing
the body to some
of the negative portion of
the spectrum, which we knew
is the ultraviolet spectrum.
Go out in the sun too much,
you can get skin cancer,
especially if you
don't wear sunscreen
and you're light complected.
So far infrared
sauna takes a part
of that spectrum
that creates heat,
but not necessarily
damage in the way
that being out in the sun does.
I think the American
Indians and people
who were doing these
more ritualistic heat
treatments on themselves long
before far infrared saunas were
around, maybe they
didn't understand
the science behind it, but
they it was good for you.
But basically what it does is
it raises your body temperature
and then your body has
to release that heat.
The way we release our
heat is by sweating.
And the sweat helps carry
the heat away from the body.
So by stimulating
that mechanism,
people don't realize this, but
you excrete just as much urea
through your skin right--
maybe more, I'd have to go
back and look at the numbers--
but a significant
amount of toxins
are excreted through
your skin as they
are in your urine or your stool
and in some cases probably
specific toxins even more.
And so by exposing yourself
to a reasonable time
frame and a reasonable
level, a safe level of heat,
you can just basically
stimulate your body
to sort of accelerate
that excretion of toxins
and you can make
that happen faster.
The other reason a far
infrared sauna is so useful
is that normal cells are
able to withstand heat
because of their
normal anatomy compared
to the abnormal anatomy
of, say, a cancer cell,
especially in relation
to its vascular supply.
And so a cancer
cell doesn't do well
in a hypothermic situation.
And this has been shown
in mainstream science
to be the case.
And so by exposing
your body to that heat,
you're selectively
killing or eradicating
those less viable cells,
those cancer cells,
without hurting
your normal cells.
And so a far infrared
sauna is useful
because it can help you
sweat, excrete toxins,
and in theory eliminate
cancer cells which
can't survive the heat as
well as the normal cells.
>> I have a question
for you on hypothermia.
>> OK.
>> Hypothermia means that you
superheat the body, right?
Why is that effective
at treating cancer?
>> Cancers cells
are heat sensitive.
Normal human cells
are heat resistant.
That's why when you and I
get a flu or an infection,
our temperature
increases as a mechanism
to get rid of that
pathogen, whether it's
a virus or a bacteria.
But the healthy
cells are not being
killed because normal
cells are heat resistant.
Cancer cells are very
fragile to temperature.
So I don't believe that we need
to get the body temperature up
to 106, 107 degrees Fahrenheit.
That's just too tough and
it's causing red blood cell
destruction.
Oftentimes, you have to give
the patient a blood transfusion.
We get the oral body temperature
up to about 101.4 degrees
Fahrenheit, knowing
that at the core
it's probably 1.5 to
two degrees higher.
So we're getting to about
103 degrees Fahrenheit, which
is a very good temperature
to cause that cancer killing
effect of these cells
that are heat sensitive.
>> And so the heat damages them
but doesn't hurt the normal
cells that are heat resistant.
>> Exactly.
>> So cancer cells don't survive
heat as well as normal cells.
It sounds like this should
be part of everyone's
detoxification regimen.
I've saved the best for last.
Dr. Darrell Wolfe,
the doc of detox,
gives you specifics
about the order
by which you can cleanse your
entire body, a full body detox.
You've written a book
called "Spoiled Rotten,"
and in that book, you go
through the order by which you
should cleanse the organs.
So go through that in
three or four minutes.
Go through the
order that someone
will need to go through in order
to detoxify their whole body
organ by organ.
>> OK.
So when people usually ask me
this question, they go, well,
what should I cleanse first?
And I say, well, what
sticks out the most?
>> Tummy.
>> So that would be
the first, thing?
>> Right.
>> So that would be
your large intestine.
So the first thing
you want to do
is if you clean out
the large intestine,
then right away you're going
to reduce the toxic load on all
the other organs.
If you request any
of the other organs
to detoxify before you
do the large intestine,
then what you'll do is
you'll start backing up
into the bloodstream
or you will even
cause further stress
to that organ itself
or the other organs if
they happen to be weak.
So the large intestine would
be the first place to go.
Right?
So it's kind of like this, we
always work from the bottom up.
OK?
So we want to do the
large intestine first.
And of course, then the
next thing that I would do
is the liver.
OK?
And then after
the liver, then we
would be looking at
doing the kidneys.
And by doing those
three major organs,
you're already working
on your lymph system,
you're already
working on your skin.
So those are the
three major ones
that I would tell people to do
would be the colon, the liver,
and the kidneys.
And if you work on those
three, then the rest
come along for the ride.
Yes.
>> So one of the things
that I've heard from any
of the interviewees is coffee
enemas are great for the liver
detox.
Right?
So that's one way
to detox the liver.
Any other suggestions
on liver detoxification?
Well, if I can
just say the coffee
enemas are absolutely
great for the liver.
And they were great for the
liver for the medical system
up until I think probably
about 15, 20 years ago
and then they weren't
great for them anymore.
But they're still great.
And what they do is they
help to trigger the liver
to get rid of that sludge that
usually would not come out.
OK?
And then the other thing is to
do like a gallbladder flush.
That's another great thing.
>> What natural substances
might be used to flush the gall?
>> Well, there's different ones.
But in that sometimes
Epsom salts is used,
sometimes it's olive
oil that's used.
OK?
And it's to basically
make the organs contract.
So the other thing, too, is
when you go into a detox,
a lot of people get scared when
they feel pain in an organ.
That's when you need to
breathe and just relax.
Because that pain that
usually you would be feeling
is actually your organ
contracting and going
into spasm.
That spasm is the only way
that it can get rid of it.
Right?
Because it goes, out, out, out.
So that's one thing I think
is really important that when
people start to detox and
when they start detoxifying
the colon and they
start getting gas cramps
or they feel nausea, that's
the old waste loosening up.
And sometimes when
you start your detox,
you might have diarrhea.
And if you start
to get diarrhea,
if it lasts for more
than a day, then you
want to back off
on that cleanse.
But even diarrhea for
the day is not dangerous.
And you may get diarrhea from
a liver cleanse or a kidney
cleanse because everything
is getting dumped to come out
through that main portal.
So don't let that scare you.
And like I said,
diarrhea won't kill you.
It might make you feel
a little bit weak,
so we don't want it
to last too long.
>> Let's go to the
kidneys real quick.
So we talked about
the liver, the gall.
We know there's many
good colon flushes,
you've talked about
the Master Cleanse tea.
Let's go to kidneys.
How do you detoxify the kidneys?
>> Well, Hulda Clark has a
herbal kidney cleanse that I
really like.
OK?
It takes about three
weeks to do it.
Because the kidneys, they don't
react as fast in cleansing.
They take more work and effort.
Just like when somebody says,
I've got kidney disease,
unless they're really going
to pull their socks up,
it's already too late.
So your kidneys have to take
a real beating before they
get into that kind of trouble.
But doing a kidney cleanse
even once a year is
a really wonderful thing because
your kidneys do so much work.
And they're more silent.
They're more silent
than the liver
and they're more silent
than the colon is.
They just are.
But a lot of times lower
back pain, pelvic pain,
pelvic girdle, hip
pain, that is usually
a sign that the kidneys
are overburdened.
>> And what might be a substance
that someone could use to get
rid of the toxins
in the kidneys?
>> Well, even just doing six to
seven days of just watermelon
will even help.
But there are many
different herbal tinctures
that you can go and find.
There's a lot of really
good kidney cleanses.
>> Yeah.
That's a common one
that I read about is
watermelon for the kidneys.
>> Yeah.
I try to do that every year.
>> So there is a specific order
to detoxify your body and Dr.
Wolfe, the doc of detox, just
shared it with us in a very
understandable manner.
Let's listen to
what he has to say
as we conclude this episode.
>> Do you notice how
every group has an icon,
like a figure that
they look up to, right?
For the medical system,
what's their icon?
Their icon is Hippocrates.
Hippocrates was the
father of medicine.
And if you don't mind, I'd
like to read this because I
don't want to get it wrong.
So their leader,
who they look up
to because they took the
Hippocratic oath, right?
OK?
This is what they look up to.
Let food by thy medicine
and medicine be thy food.
I don't know.
They don't talk about diet.
I mean, that's the
root of all life.
So right there,
they fail greatly.
Make a habit of two things, to
help or at least do no harm.
Meanwhile, we've
got a war on cancer.
You can't go to war
with anything, Ty.
You want to go to war with me?
What happens?
>> We both die.
>> That's right.
Thank you.
Next thing, natural
forces within us
are the true healers of disease.
So where have they forgotten?
They have forgotten.
I haven't forgotten,
you haven't forgotten.
So we must go within
and we must understand
something, that nobody's
going to save your butt, Ty.
When you got that body and you
came down here on that planet,
you made a promise
to somewhere, somehow
that you were going to
respect and love your body
and you were going to
make the decisions.
Every decision, OK,
has a consequence
and it can be
either good or bad.
Now, do you let somebody else
look after your finances, Ty?
Well why would you let someone
else look after your body?
OK.
One last thing that
Hippocrates stated,
whenever a doctor
cannot do good,
he must be kept from doing harm.
What happened to the
Hippocratic oath?
I think the only thing that's
left is called the hypocrite.
>> Wow.
What an amazing episode, folks.
Tonight we learned
specifics on how
you can get rid of the
trash from your body, how
you can detoxify.
Now, there's toxicities
in a lot of things.
Did you know that
a lot of medicines
have toxicities in them?
Have you ever looked
at commercials on TV
and seen the list
of side effects?
I mean, sometimes it's more
than half the commercial
listing the side
effects of these drugs.
Now, that's an example
to me of people
that are looking in the
wrong place for answers.
Drugs don't cure.
They mitigate symptoms,
but they don't cure.
I mean, if you have
a headache, is it
because you have a lack
of Advil in your system?
I don't think so.
You've got other things that
are going on in your body.
This reminds me of a time
about three or four years ago
that I was in West Virginia with
a friend of mine who's actually
a medical doctor, but
he's also a medicine man
for an Indian tribe.
And he took me
through the forest.
He asked me to list
anything that I could see,
whether it be trees or bark
or herbs or weeds, anything
that was growing that
wasn't medicinal.
And I started
pointing out things.
And he said, no, you're wrong.
That does have this
medicinal effect
or that medicinal effect.
And in the end, I learned that
everything that was growing
was medicine.
It was a whole pharmacy right
there in the middle of nature.
It was nature's pharmacy.
And that's what we're going to
learn about tomorrow, nature's
pharmacy, the way that
everything that we need
is growing in nature.
All the medicines that we
need are natural medicines
and they're growing
out there just for you.
We're going to teach
you about that tomorrow.
And by the way, it's not
surprising that all of nature
is a pharmacy in light of the
fact that between 70% and 80%
of every prescription
drug has it's basis where,
in plants and herbs.
Makes sense to me.
I think it will make sense
to you, too, tomorrow night.
So please tune in.
The meantime, have a great
evening and God bless you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was diagnosed with prostate
cancer 10 years ago and I had
the fear of death put
into me by the urologist.
And he had a bedside
manner of a Neanderthal
as far as I was concerned.
And it prompted me to
study natural medicine.
When the doctor tells
you you've got cancer
and he says it just
like that, there's two
things you know about cancer.
One is you're going to die
and you're going to die soon.
That's the average person's
view of having somebody
say that you've got cancer.
And it's the most
irresponsible thing
that a doctor can
do, particularly
with prostate cancer
because you're not
going to die tomorrow or the
next day or the next month
or perhaps even the
next year or two.
But if you have
conventional treatment,
the potential for you living
with impotence, incontinence,
and the cancer coming back more
vigorously than it was there
in the first place
are pretty damn good.
Look at the statistics.
It's not me that's saying this.
These are statistics
that can be studied.
So when you figure that out and
you look at them and you go,
wow.
I'm enjoying my life.
I better look at something else.
I better figure
out a better way.
And that's when
you start studying.
And you'd be amazed at how
conventional medicine will
fight you every bit of the way.
By all intents and purposes, I
mean, I've been here 10 years
now supposedly with cancer.
But I've been cancer-free
probably five or six years.
It's a privilege.
I honestly believe that
me getting prostate cancer
was a blessing.
And I don't necessarily mean
that in a religious world.
But if it works, then it
was a religious blessing,
if you like.
But it was a calling for me
to do something different.
And later on because of my
ability to make documentaries,
it was a calling to do that.
We are overtreated,
we're overdiagnosed,
we're overtested.
What were not told how to
live our lives to avoid some
of these problems and
if we have the problems,
how to live our lives to
live through the problems
and get better, how to
manage the body, how to eat,
how to talk, how to
think, how to get
rid of stress, how to resolve
emotional traumas in our life
so they're not a taxation
on our immune system.
Nobody's teaching that.
When you go to the urologist,
he hasn't got a clue
about those things.
All he knows is I'm a surgeon,
I cut, I take your prostate out.
That doesn't resolve anything.
All it takes out is
prostate and the tumor.
And then if the cancer
comes back they say,
well, obviously we
didn't get it all.
No.
The problem is that the
cause is still there,
and the cause will create
cancer somewhere else.
If there's no prostate
that create it in,
it will create it
somewhere else.
I've done a lot in my
life outside of this.
I've made lots of
documentary films,
I've done a lot of
television shows,
I was a stunt man for 10
years in movies like "Batman
and Robin" and "Apollo 13."
I mean, I've done a lot.
I'm just grateful that
this stage of my life I
have a purpose, and
the purpose appears
to be coming to me to do this.
I'm pretty grateful for that.
A lot of people don't have
any purpose in their life.
I'm grateful for
having that purpose.
You see the smile on their
face or I've had phone calls
from people saying, thank you.
You've saved my life.
I've actually had phone
calls where people say that.
That's pretty damn powerful
stuff on any plane.
I mean, I talk to
a lot of doctors.
I've changed the minds
of a lot of doctors
that had no idea of
the research that
is out there that's been
done that they never
get taught in medical school.
I lost my father to the
treatment for prostate cancer--
not the disease, the treatment.
But what was more
of an emotion was
when I started to study prostate
cancer when I had it and found
out that he'd been killed by
the treatment, not the disease.
He could have had 10, 15
more years on his life.
If you realize that the
standard of care for his day
was a drug that killed him,
rather than the understanding
that prostate cancer can
be lived with and managed.
I was pretty pissed off
because the doctors of the day
had no indication, no
inclination about looking
beyond what they
were told to do,
which was you've got this
disease, you get this drug.
You've got to
understand the thing.
The drug of that day
that they gave my father
was a drug called flutamide.
Flutamide is an androgen
deprivation drug.
It kills testosterone.
If you don't have
testosterone in your body,
your bones shrink and will
break and your muscles collapse.
Now, what's one of the
biggest muscles in your body?
Your heart.
OK?
Without testosterone, your
heart will stop, you will die.
You don't die of
prostate cancer,
you die from the
results of the drug
they're giving you that kills
testosterone in your body.
It prevents your
body from naturally
making the testosterone that it
needs to support your own life.
But he missed out on his life.
That's the issue.
And they call them side effects.
No.
They're not side effects,
they're direct effects.
My father dying
was a direct effect
of him taking that drug, not
some sort of willy-nilly side
effect.
If he hadn't ever
taken that drug,
he would not have died
of that heart attack.
And on his death certificate,
it says myocardiac infarction.
It doesn't say death from
the drug of prostate cancer.
>> It should?
>> Of course it should.
It's incredibly dishonest.
>> Do you feel that's dishonest?
>> I certainly do.
Because instead of
it being a statistic
of dying of flutamide, it just
says myocardiac infarction.
What the hell do
they learn from that?
Nothing.
He died from the
drug that he was
being made to take by
his doctor because that
was the standard of
care in that day.
>> Your dad wasn't
ready to go, was he?
>> One assumes not.
Well, who of us is?
Because we're not
getting the truth
from conventional medicine.
We're just not.
So any organization,
whether it calls
itself the Truth about
Cancer, which is a great title
or whether it's my small
organization, which
is Healing Arts
Education Foundation,
we're all in the same game to
help people understand what
it is that's making
this medical world tick
and how to really get around the
pitfalls of particularly cancer
treatment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]